# Why Does Disney Keep Doing This?
It has often been said that “the best artists create for their audience whereas others artists create for themselves.”  I’ve seen this quote be applied to many different situations across the internet but the one I’m focusing on today is the arguable king of the art media industry, Disney.

From his work creating beautiful cartoons with engaging characters to touching movies with aspirational heroes, Walt Disney inspired a century of storytellers.  He created for his audience and it proved to be massively successful.  The Disney Company used to stand for the highest quality in animation and film.  As a kid with a stop-motion camera and some Lego people, I used to dream about working for Disney someday.  The Disney Company used to stand for the highest quality in animation and film.  But that is no longer the case.  
## The Box Office Flops
In the year of 2023, Disney released 12 major movies that all had high hopes and an even higher budget.  These wishes, however, should have been made upon a different star.  The Walt Disney Company was strapping their hands, arms, legs and feet inside the ride for a bumpy ride through this past year.
For example, Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania spent $193.2 million and netted $81.9 million.  That may seem like a lot of money but it is still 43% of its original budget.  In the end, they lost $111.3 million.  This was one of the biggest losses to date for the Walt Disney Companies.  Later that year, Disney released the 5th installment in recently-acquired the Indiana Jones franchise.

Many Indiana Jones were stoked for this movie’s release.  The film, however, was a massive disappointment.  With an impressive budget of $294.7 million, it returned only $174.4 million.  While still a better ROI than Quantumania, 60% is still a net loss.  The only thing this film had it going for it as opposed to the aforementioned Ant-Man film was it’s relatively untarnished reputation. 

The Indiana Jones franchise has had more success with box office audiences than the recent Marvel movies.  Speaking of Marvel, The Marvels was released last year with a budget of $274.8 million and made $84.5 million at the box office.  The 30% ROI was devastating to Disney and they needed to come up with something big, especially in lieu of the company’s 100th Anniversary.

The answer to this problem came in the form of a strange movie entitled Wish.  With an estimated budget of $200 million, the movie generated $105.5 million in box office revenue.  On top of the crushing 52% ROI, Disney battled accusations of using AI to write the script.  If you watch the movie and see how many people were involved in the writing process, you’ll understand why these speculations may prove credible.
## What Happened?
The obvious question on everyone’s lips is “what happened?”  How could such a beloved production company fail so miserably at creating the art that their audience enjoys?  The answer to this question lies within marketing.

It’s no secret that I am especially skeptical of marketing.  Throughout the last series of short animations I created, the common thread was nefarious lies beneath a family-friendly exterior.  I have this perspective because I have worked in several different marketing positions during my time as an intern, specialist and coordinator.  My reason for this skepticism is that modern marketing as an art form has taken a wrong turn: marketers create for themselves, not their audience.

Before I get too far, I need to back up and introduce a marketing concept that is critical to analyzing this problem with Disney.  That concept is personas.  A persona is a representation of the ideal customer.  It usually comes in the form of a document detailing the psychographic, geographic and demographic characteristics of the target audience.  It also associates a name and a face to that group.  Essentially, it’s a made-up person that is supposedly representative of the customer base.  These personas can be useful but at the end of the day, they are still made-up.  

It started as a tool for software developers (which is coincidentally what I am doing now).  A software developer in 1985 named Alan Cooper created personas as a means of understanding the difficulties of customers to use his software.  He interviewed dozens of people and consolidated them into one persona, a fictional character named “Kathy.”  This concept got popular with marketers in the 1990s and has been used ever since.

I, myself, have worked with personas a great deal.  At one company that I worked at I was asked to present personas that someone else on my team created.  When I looked over them, I didn’t find them to be very consistent with what customer data I could find at the time.  It was a masculine product with a masculine audience and the persona was very feminine.  It seemed to be more of a reflection of the person who created the persona rather than the customer.  
## The Persona Problem
The problem that I noticed with these personas is that they usually aren’t based in data.  Companies that can’t afford the time to get to know their audience will invent imaginary representations of their customers that don’t have anything to do with reality.  

Based on what we’ve observed with Disney, it seems like they are creating personas that represent the marketing team’s wishes rather than the audience they are supposed to target.  This misalignment could be an explanation for what’s going wrong.  Going back to the Indiana Jones film, I can safely say as a fan that what I wanted was a movie in which Indiana Jones was an aspirational action hero just like he was in previous films.  What I didn’t want was a movie in which he is a loser upstaged by a female hero that hates him and everyone likes. 

Disney used to stand for family animation and films that were generally appealing, not hyper-niche.  If faulty personas are to blame for their recent track record, it would make sense.  Content that appeals to only the marketing team is reflective of the mistakes many companies make with personas.  So here’s to Disney in 2024.  Let’s hope they get back to making art that their audience loves.	

<!-- 01/22/24 -->
